In the previous video, we already learn how
to import cisco router to gns3, next in this
video, we are going to learn how to install
ubuntu server. we will use the ubuntu server
to doing a network automation.
Let’s just start,
We will install the ubuntu server on virtual
box, if you don’t have virtualbox yet, you
can download it first.
Just go to virtualbox.org, download, and here
we can choose the operating system that you
use.
I will not show you how to install virtualbox,
because this is very simple,
For now, I already have virtualbox installed
on my laptop.
Next, we need to download the ubuntu server
installer.
Go to releases.ubuntu.com/20.04, this is the
latest version of ubuntu when this video created.
Here we can choose the server version.
I also already download this ubuntu installer.
Now let’s start learn how to install ubuntu
server on virtualbox.
Click new here to create a new virtual machine,
for the name, let’s say Ubuntu, continue,
I will leave the RAM as default, which is
1gig,
Continue, and here choose create to create
new virtual hard drive.
Choose VDI, continue, dynamic, continue, here
we can choose the size of the virtual hard
drive.
The default is 10gig, this is enough, so let’s
just create.
And done.
Let’s start the virtual machine, when we
start the virtual machine for the first time,
we will need to choose the installer,
Add, and then choose the ubuntu installer
that we have downloaded before.
Start,
Okay now we can install the ubuntu server,
choose the language, you can use up and down
arrow in the keyboard, and to go to the next
step, you can use enter.
Here I choose English and then enter,
Here we have a question about ubuntu update,
I choose continue without updating here, and
then enter,
Here we can choose the keyboard type that
we use, this is the right keyboard for me,
so just enter,
Here we can configure the ip address, but
the default is dhcp, for now we will leave
it as default.
Proxy address, leave it blank, done,
Mirror address, leave it default, done,
Here we can choose the partition method, the
default is automatic partition, if you want
to doing a partition by your self, you can
choose custom storage layout.
If you beginner, just leave it default and
done.
We can use tab in the keyboard to go to done,
and then enter.
Here we need to type the username and password,
To move from username to the password you
can use tab,
Here we have a choices to install ssh server
or no, in this case I will install ssh server.
so we can remote the virtual machine from
our laptop.
Let’s check this using space in the keyboard.
Here we can choose some application.
But I will leave it as default.
Okay now the installation process is running.
We just need to wait until the installation
process is done.
Okay now the installation is done, we can
see installation complete here, but in the
buttom, we can see downloading and installing
security update, you can wait until the update
is done, but for now, I will just cancel the
update and reboot.
Okay here the ubuntu is ready, let’s login
using username and password that we have created.
Okay we are success login to the ubuntu server.
I think enough for this video, in the next
video, we are going to learn how to connecting
this ubuntu server with router inside gns3.
Thank you for watching and see you on the
next video.